# info330-SQL
This is a SQL database storing every segment of data would be produced in an e-sport gaming tournament.

### Why we are doing this database?
The success and failure of many events are not based on the content of the event itself, but rather how organized it is. A successful event depends on both demand and organization. That’s why we decided to create a database to help manage a gaming tournament. There will be teams who want to compete, and a very large audience. From figures in 2017, League of Legends has a player-base of 80 million. In order to host a tournament about a game with this kind of following, it is imperative that the event runs smoothly. A database will help keep things organized from behind the scenes. Queries that provide information on players, when each game begins, and where staff are located helps keep track of the role of each entity in the database.

### Who will use this database?
Event organizers will want to use our database to help them host this tournament. Each entity within the database already has columns that describe a certain characteristic. The organizer can simply put in the relevant information and proceed with the event. The ERD is also set up to be as efficient as possible when querying information. Entities are related to each other in a logical fashion and each entity is distinct. Someone who is trying to study more into the logistics of event-planning can also use this database. There is detailed information about each staff member and how each one can be differentiated from another. For example, a security guard will have different attributes when compared to a concessions stand worker.

### How we are going to design this database?
The tournament will borrow many rules from League of Legends World Championship, since they are the most rigorous and fair rules for tournaments. We will have 16 teams randomly divided into four groups. Our database will keep track of the number of wins and losses to determine which team can advance. After the group stage, teams will be randomly paired up and play a best of five against their opponent. We will record the winners and losers in our database again to ensure the accuracy of the information. Some significant statistics of players and teams will be recorded as well. On the organizing side, we will also have the information of the staff and the audience better regulate this event. 

### When are we going to use this database?
Since the database is created for the tournament, its basic frame, including the stage design, staff distribution, gamers information, and ticket information, would definitely be built before the tournament begins. But data is dynamic. As the tournament keeps going, information is changing. For example, the statistics of gamers would be changed depends on their performance, ticket information would be changed as the audience changing their minds, and participating teams would be changed as some of them could get in the next stage and some of them could not. The data is dynamic, so as the database. Therefore, we will keep monitoring the tournament and update the database until the tournament ends and finally completes the database.

### What does this database cover?
The tournament database will include basically four parts of information. The first part is the information of tournament match staff, their ID number, name, and specific jobs such as referees and casters may include their years of experience. The second part is the tournament stage information, which supports the most parts of our database and is a major table, including the date of each stage (group, quarter-final, semi-final, etc), the team score during group stage, and the afterward stages (elimination games) start and end time. From the stage information, our table will expand to the third part- team stats. Team stats will include each team’s player and manager information. And the last part will involve some ingame stats such as player’s kills, deaths, assists, and of course the stats of each champion, from which player’s favorite champion and each champion’s win rate can be calculated as well.
